Module nine is here and we're going over analytics
and just the basics of analytics.
Everything to do with the actual analytics and YouTube
because they are super, super useful to improve your videos.
If your videos are not performing
or underperforming, you can completely fix
that just because of the analytics.
Um, and a lot of stuff you would've never been able
to fix if you didn't watch this module.
So we're gonna go over the understand, just understanding
what the numbers actually mean on your screen.
When you go on your analytics, there
are so many little buttons.
You can click like literally thousands in the YouTube
analytics and a lot of them are useless pointless.
So we're gonna go over exactly what you need to do,
what you need to look at, and how
to improve your future videos based on your old
videos performance.
So we're gonna go over YouTube's default analytics
and talk about why they are misleading.
So the same here is just YouTube's default.
Analytics that they show on the screen are misleading just
about everything you see on the screen
or a lot of it when you go on your analytics.
The stuff that looks important is actually not important.
And uh, misleading is a key word here that I want you to,
to uh, write down.
So a critical understanding that you need
to know when looking at your an analytics is
that the default CTR, which means click the rate
and the default A, B, D, which is average viewer duration.
The numbers that YouTube shows are wrong for what matters.
They average data from all of your traffic sources.
And by traffic sources, I mean browse features, right?
That's the YouTube homepage. When somebody goes
to youtube.com, the homepage, when they just open YouTube,
that is browse features.
If somebody's already watching a YouTube video
and they have the sidebar of recommended videos to watch
after the current video they're watching,
that's suggested videos.
Okay? And then you have YouTube search.
That's when somebody goes and searches something on YouTube.
You have external sources.
That's if somebody sends you a YouTube video on text message
or discord and you open it through there.
You have channel pages, that's if somebody searches up your
channel name or they, you know, click on a link
to your channel and they press on a video by going
through your channel pages
or through your channel page, like they sort go
to your videos tab on your channel, you have end screens.
That's at the end of the video.
At the end of your video, you can send an end screen
that's just like a little button
that you can set like the last five to 15 seconds
of your video, um, to press on either a video, like one
of your previous videos, your latest videos, uh,
specific video could go
to even a a different channels videos.
Uh, and that's a traffic source that's gonna say end screen.
So there, there's a bunch of different traffic sources.
If you just go back and listen to what I just said,
these traffic sources, not all of them have to do
with the YouTube algorithm, right?
The only thing that's gonna influence getting more views in
the algorithm is
how your video is performing in the algorithm.
If your video's getting a bunch of views from channel pages
or from external sources or from end screens
or from anything that's simply just not browse features
or suggested, because those are the two recommendation
features that YouTube uses to recommend to viewers.
Um, if it's anything else,
it's not gonna impact your videos performing.
So if you make like a tutorial video, a bunch
of people might be like searching how
to fix my graphics card
on my computer or something like that.
And if 90% of your views are from
Uh, YouTube search, then guess what?
That's not gonna help you in the, uh, in the algorithm.
So if your click-through rate is 30% on YouTube search
and for example if your A VD is 80% on YouTube search, you,
you might get a really high average A VD
and a high average CTR and that's what YouTube displays.
But that number that is
displayed just doesn't mean anything.
In some cases, the number
that is displayed can match the numbers
that actually matter, but in a lot
of cases it's completely wrong.
And we're gonna go over and I'm actually gonna pull up some
YouTube analytics and show you exactly what I mean.
So these audiences weren't served
by YouTube's algorithm, like I said.
So they don't affect your algorithmic performance.
So the only numbers that matter
and to see your real stats, number one, go
to your analytics open YouTube studio
and go to the analytics on a video.
So here's an older channel I had.
We're gonna go to my most popular video on this channel,
which has 1.9 million views
and my uh, cat has joined me here.
This is oyster. Anyways, so this video,
you can see all the stats.
So to actually go, you go into your content tab
and then you have this analytics button, right?
You can press on the analytics here
and your individual video
analytics is what matters the most.
And this video is like uh, very old. I mean how old is this?
July of 2024. So this is like around a year and a half old.
If I do like the last 90 days, this single video by the way,
like single video
and the last three months has made $800, not the channel.
This last single video has made $800.
I just wanted to highlight that this stuff is long term like
this one video, not the whole channel.
This one video was uploaded a year
and a half ago, like 18 months ago
and in the last three months, such a small percentage of
how long this video has been out
and just the last three months, this video has made $839.
Anyways, let's go um, to lifetime stats again.
And you can even actually see here
that this video is doing pretty well.
It completely flatlined then outta nowhere, boom.
Uh, so for like what March all the way to July of 2025.
There was just no views on this
and then it just boom started
outta nowhere and it's kind of dying.
Now again. But let's look at where the analytics,
it's gonna be the reach tab and the engagement.
So I already showed you how to get to this video analytics.
You go to your content tab, press
on specific video analytics.
Now you have these two spots, reach, engagement,
audience revenue, all of these things kind of matter.
The overview doesn't really matter at all.
So let's go to the reach tab
and it's gonna tell you your impressions.
It's gonna tell you your click through it, your views,
all this stuff and you think, oh this is so important
because this is what YouTube is showing.
Like all of this stuff is totally useless.
Um, what we're gonna go is we're gonna scroll down
and you're gonna see how like stupid this kind of is.
But we're gonna scroll down, we're gonna see
how viewers found this video, this area right here.
So it's one down and on the left side
and we're gonna press see more.
Okay, this is where we want to go immediately.
What you can do just to make things easy is just press
suggested and browse features, okay?
You have these highlighted. Um, this is all that matters.
So let's take a look.
We have 11 million impressions from browse features
and 6 million from suggested.
I just wanna clarify right now some videos will have 100%
of their impressions from browse.
Some will have a hundred percent from suggested,
some will be 70 30 or 70 30 this way or some will be 90 10
or some will be 50 50.
It doesn't matter. These are just both algorithmic features
that YouTube's using to push out videos to new viewers
or to I guess any viewers.
Um, so it doesn't matter which one it comes from,
but we need to weigh them differently just based on
the amount of impressions it got.
So although yes from suggest,
so we have 6.3 million impressions
and the clickthrough rate is 10.3%.
The more valuable clickthrough rate to look at
of course is this one browse features
'cause it has almost double the impressions and that's 7%.
Now look at these other things.
We have 13,000 impressions from channel pages
that's giving us 12.7% CTR, which is useless.
But this is when we go back here,
this is factored into this clickthrough rate.
Of course in this video specifically it's like 99%
of the impressions came from these two.
So this is what I'm talking about. In some cases
that average number can be somewhat accurate,
but then once again playlist 5.9% CTR.
But this isn't helping us YouTube search 8.5% CTR.
This isn't helping us
but it just happens to be
around the same click-through rate.
But what really matters is these two.
So we know around 17 million impressions,
I mean almost all the impressions are from these two.
So this number is pretty accurate.
But of course we're gonna average this based on seven
and 10.3 and we know that seven ways more,
which is why averages out to around 8.2.
So in this case, this video is actually uh, pretty accurate.
But another thing you need to look at is
the average viewer duration.
Right here we have a six minutes 50 on end screen.
We have 6,000 views from end screen
and six minute 50 A VD down here we have six minute 15 from
playlist and then we have two minutes 22,
your A VD right is on engagement and this is 4 29.
But we wanna go to reach actually and go to see more.
And this is where we look at our A VD,
just the A VD of these two.
These are what matters and you
need to weigh them differently.
Like you could technically do the math
and find out the exact average just using
these and filter these out.
But this is what matters.
Pretty much this is where you need to be looking at your CTR
and your A VD and your impressions and even your views.
Now let's go to this old AI channel.
I had not running this one currently.
Like even these channels, like these are,
I'm completely not running them anymore
and they're still making like a few dollars a day,
like 160 in the last month.
Like I don't even notice this in my ad sense of course
'cause the numbers is a lot bigger than
one 60 that I'm getting monthly.
But I have like maybe five to 10 channels that um,
I just don't run that bring in like somewhere.
Some of them bring in, I have like five channels
that bring in like 50 bucks a month.
I have a few that bring in a few hundred
and I have a few that bring in like 500
that are just completely inactive.
I don't run them anymore.
You might be like, oh, why don't you run them?
It's because the newer videos
for whatever reason just don't get views anymore
or they, it just costs too much
to run And obviously it's a hundred percent profit if I'm
not paying for new videos anymore.
And this channel, the last upload was, uh,
almost four months ago now
and it's still making $160 a month.
So it's just free money, um, to me at this point.
But let's go to like a video
that performed like let's do one
that performed like somewhat decent.
So 112, let's go
to like this 20,000 view video, which actually does pretty well.
You'll see the revenue here is at 110.
This was actually, the revenue stats here aren't super
accurate because this video was, uh,
that video was before I was monetized.
So let's look at like this one. So this one you can see has
33,000 views but made $580 and that's
because we're getting $17 and 60 cents per thousand views
'cause it's a two hour long video.
So that's before anybody asks us why that is the case,
let's go over to our reach.
We see 5.4%.
Uh, and I kind of talked a little bit on this before,
but you know, you're gonna have a lower CTR.
Actually, I'm not even sure if I mentioned this before.
Just in general, your stats are gonna go down.
I think I did mention it, but your stats are gonna go down
the more YouTube pushes your video out, okay?
It finds the audio like it, it pushes out in the order
of your, your ti uh,
your title gives you a few hundred views.
Then if the CT R is get, uh, uh, good,
you'll get a few thousand views.
If your AVD is good,
then it'll push out a few more thousand
views, uh, to a new audience.
If the new audience likes it, then they'll push out
to a new audience then to a new audience.
And essentially the cycle will just be new audience,
new audience, new audience, new audience.
And uh, over time the CTR
and A VD will go down because of that.
Any who, let's go to see more here
and we'll see that our CTR is 5.6% here
and most of our impressions came from here, right?
So we want browse features
and suggested we only got 18,000
impressions from browse features.
So even though I had impressions here, uh,
I'm not even gonna be too concerned with this
because out of like 420,000 impressions out
of these two total, I'm not counting this.
Like if I just add these two,
this is 4 24 0 2 is from browse features,
but of course we have 20,000 impressions from channel pages.
2.3% playlisting is 3.3%.
And once again, the a VDS are
scattered all over the place here.
So notice actually the impression clickthrough rate
says 5.4%.
My A VD is 36 51,
but I would actually say on this video my clickthrough rate
is 5.6% and my A VD is 30 some uh, in 10.
Now in, in this case as well.
Um, it's not much of a difference.
Like I'm telling you though, it's very common
to see some pretty big differences.
Like I'll try and go through a few of these,
see if we can find one that has like bigger difference.
Like let's take a look at this video. For example.
This is a, a good one. We have 72,000 impressions from uh,
search, which is 7.4% and then we have 23 minute A, B, D.
So the A VD on the video is 42
and the search A VD is 23, the clickthrough rate is 5.9%,
but the search a VD or uh, clickthrough rate is 7.4.
So what's actually happening is YouTube search is bumping up
the clickthrough rate higher than it should be.
And then at the same time the YouTube search is
bringing down the A VD.
So let's say, uh, like actually pressing on this,
you don't have to check mark them
because uh, that just changes what you see in the chart.
I'm just doing that. So you guys know
what I'm looking at at the moment.
So I'm looking at these 2 53 minute A VD
and this is, I mean it's 77,000 impressions.
We had most impressions from browse features,
so it weighs more, but we still had a good
amount from suggested.
Uh, so 53, we have 45 here.
So I would say just like off the top of my head,
I'd probably say my A VD is like between 47 and 48 minutes.
Yeah, my average reiteration here is actually 42 minutes.
So I'd say the A VD is actually higher than what it's saying
and in some cases it can be vice versa.
It's uh, um, the A VD is lower than what it says.
And that's, uh, what the biggest problem is is when you're
misleaded thinking your CTR
and A VD is good when it's not right.
And same, uh, and I think it's the opposite here, right?
Where in this case the CTR is higher than it should be.
Like yes, browse features is 6.0, but this is 4.1.
So I'd say this is probably closer to like 5.4, 5.5.
So this is lower than we're saying,
but in some cases this could be like 5.9,
but the real CTR is like 4%.
I've seen that before. I've seen the opposite
where it says 5.9 here and it should be like 8%
and same thing's gonna occur with the A VD.
So it's just really important to understand that this is
where you should be looking for your clickthrough rate
and your A VD and how to calculate it.
You should just only look at these two value them based on
how many impressions you actually got from them
and then kind of ignore the rest
because you know, you might think you don't need
to fix your, your thumbnail when you do.
And then all of this stuff here I kind
of already just went through.
Um, but yeah, just click show more press the advanced
analytics only browse feature suggested matter.
I already explained what browse features is, right?
The YouTube homepage suggested
as a sidebar recommendations when you're on a video.
And these are the only things that actually matter.
And uh, I also talked about the ratio.
Like it doesn't matter if it comes from mostly suggested
or mostly browse features are half
and half, it doesn't matter.
Um, when you should, uh, check your analytics,
realistically you should check,
I'd say normally like 24 hours later
because the first 24 hours don't really matter.
People think, oh, it's best to post at 8:37 PM or this,
and it shows in your like YouTube studio, the audience,
what time they're active, stuff like that.
But on YouTube, this isn't the case
for all platforms, by the way.
We're talking about YouTube specifically here on YouTube.
YouTube doesn't care what time you upload.
I know plenty of YouTubers. There are two YouTubers.
They had like personal brand channels
and they did videos together.
So both of them were on channel number one
and both of them were on channel two.
They made videos together, they were duos
and one of them would post at 2:00 PM every single day.
I think it was Eastern time, so like, uh,
east Coast United States time.
So one of them would post on their channel at 2:00 PM they
would both daily upload one of their channels.
They would post at 2:00 PM
and on the other channel they'd post at 2:00 AM
and the views were the same.
But what you would notice is that the first, like
for example, the channel number one,
they would get a lot more views in the first like 6, 8, 9
hours, uh, than the second channel.
But then after 24 hours it would kind
of a level out to the same amount.
And the reason this happens is
because YouTube isn't like, oh,
because your viewers are aren't online right now.
We're not gonna push this video to them.
YouTube, once your videos uploaded it kind, YouTube kind
of acts as if your video's uploaded when your viewers open
the app, if that makes sense.
So if your viewer opens the app two days later
and that's like a person they would've recommended it to,
that's when you'll get the view from them.
So this is, uh, and most people are,
that are active YouTube users are watching every day.
So in the full 24 hours, you're going
through every time zone on the planet, right?
So after the full 24 hours,
that's when you can kind of really gauge.
Um, so first zero to 24, I would like kind of, I would,
I wouldn't say ignore completely
'cause you can get some decent insights,
but it's not gonna be accurate.
It's totally like 99% of the time it's gonna change a lot.
24 to 48 hours.
First look at your browse and suggested stats.
Uh, after seven days, you're getting a clear picture
of like the performance.
And then after 30 days, you're, you're getting like,
it really isn't gonna change
much from there, more than likely.
Uh, and I kind of touch on this a little bit as well,
but why stats get worse as views increase,
your stats will typically decline.
This is normal Every time YouTube pushes to a new audience,
and I'm talking about once you're getting like hundreds
of thousands, millions of views, not like, uh, you know,
you go from a few hundred to a thousand views
and you're like, oh, that's why my stats are going down.
Like if your stats are going down at
that level, that's not good.
Um, anyways, this is normal.
Every time YouTube pushes to a new audience, they have
to retest New audiences don't always respond as well
as your initial audience.
Don't celebrate good stats with low views.
YouTube hasn't really tested yet, and if it's a bad topic
or niche, no push will ever even happen.
So you'll have good stats, but nobody will see it.
So you'll be like, oh, I have a really high CTR,
really high A, B, D, but why do I have no views?
And that goes back to the push order.
Your title was just bad. Um, and how often should you check?
Well, you should check your analytics every single day.
Skip videos in their first 24 hours.
Normally check if old videos are still getting views,
sign of evergreen content.
You wanna make more evergreen content.
Like if a video doesn't get like crazy views immediately,
but then the videos always getting views,
you should probably make more videos like that.
So you can have channels like I just showed you where you,
like, even if you stop posting,
you still just have free money when you have 10 channels.
I'm getting paid a few thousand dollars a month solely from
inactive channels, right?
A few thousand dollars a month from
solely inactive channels.
I'm just, I mean that's kind of crazy.
Real time analytics are cool, which is like the,
it shows you 48 hours, like a little blue bars.
They're cool, but they don't really help you improve
anything, but they're definitely cool to look at.
So when you see a real time, it's not much you can do
to help with, like improve.
It's not much data in the first place.
It just tells you how many views you've got in the last
48, 48 hours you should be comparing to your competitors.
The ultimate benchmark is a 70% rule,
which is you should expect to do 70%
of your competitors view counts, right?
The channel you find you should start your channel within,
uh, like 48 to 72 hours and like eventually
after you're posting and consistent, you should aim for 70%
of your competitors' view count.
Um, and same thing. If you can calculate
how much money the channel's making,
let's say they're making a thousand dollars a month,
their channel might look like it's doing decent,
but if it's only making a thousand
dollars a month, of course that's something.
So the views might catch your eyes,
but it, the channel might not be making a lot,
which is why you should ask ave my opinion on this stuff.
Um, and find out how much a channel is making
because then 70% would be 700 a month.
Is 700 a month worth your time? Maybe it is.
Um, but that's 700.
Like let's, well, uh,
you gotta realize like there's probably exp like cost
for running the videos, but let's say it's 70%, uh,
or a thousand dollars profit is how much they're making.
We're not even talking, talking about revenue.
That's like their profit after paying
for whatever they need to pay for.
So 70% of that is $700 a month profit.
That could be, um, you know, useful to some people.
And I'm not gonna say that that's bad for sure,
like $700 a month.
Anybody would take it, I would take it.
Um, but at the same time, the reason I'd say maybe avoid
something like that is simply
because you could use that time to find a channel
that's making 5,000 a month profit
and then 70% of that is gonna be a lot more than $700.
Um, so simply compare your video views to your competitors.
Similar videos. If you're hitting at least 70%
of their numbers, you're on track below that you need
to fix your quality of your videos
or your thumbnails or your titles.
Um, CTR is niche dependent. CTR is also niche dependent.
So 5% CTR is actually really good.
If everyone in your niche is at 4%,
it's terrible if your competitors are at 8% though.
So always benchmark against your specific niche,
not general YouTube averages, especially for the CTRI mean,
in general, like it's hard to kind
of give generalized numbers, like, like it is for,
for the A VD just in, in general, like when you have,
kinda like, it depends on your audience age.
Normally I would say for kids niches like ROBLOX videos
or Minecraft videos, like you really need 10, 11, 12% even,
um, or even higher in some cases
to do well on like compilation videos.
I, I know I needed at least 8%
for documentary style channels.
I know it's typically around 7% ish.
So it really just depends on the niche, it's hard to say.
And you can kind of tell just based on your video,
how your video's performing and your stats.
Like, it's really easy to tell
what your competitors are without being in their
analytics based on you.
You post a video, it's getting a few hundred views,
that means your title's good,
but then it's getting stopped at the CTR and your CTR 6%.
Well your competitor's CTR is probably like seven, eight
or 9% and you need
to fix your thumbnails then to get pushed out.
So you can kind of use your own numbers to figure out
what your competitor's numbers are.
'cause if YouTube is pushing out your videos,
then you're doing at least the same as your competitors.
Otherwise they'd be giving your competitors' views.
But if your videos are just not getting pushed out,
then clearly your stats are worse than your competitors.
And that's gonna be it for, uh, number nine.